Blog: an intro to MCP that will actually help (#11657)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/machine-copy-paste-mcp-intro.mdx

---
title: "MCP: machine copy/paste"
date: 2025-05-30
author:
  - danilo-campos
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/robot_6d2cab1b66.png
featuredImageType: full
tags:
    - Engineering
    - LLM
---

It’s been hard to talk about MCP – [model context protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction).

It’s just so abstract. Why would you want this? What does it do?

So let’s break it down into actionable terms.

> MCP exists because our meat is slow, and machines are fast.

Author: oh that's a great addition, thank you!

> Our meat is slow, and machines are fast. But even machines need a common interface to get things done – that's why MCP exists.

Reviewer: What do you mean by "our meat"? lol

Our brains, bodies, etc? I slightly don't get how this fits with the second part of the paragraph. 

Machines also might be too broad a term here.

```suggestion
LLMs can be quick and clever, but there are also sort of a brain without any hands. They need those hands to create a interface to get things done – that's why MCP exists.
```

Author: I'm gonna keep it lean and anomalous to land a hook and propel into the next section

## Are you down with MCP?

> In the bad old days of two years ago, using the latest models for writing code meant manually ferrying text between your editor and a browser tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the bad old days (two years ago), using the latest models for writing code meant manually ferrying text between your editor and a browser tab.
```

> It was tedious, sure, but even worse: it was error-prone. The manual interventions were driven by our imprecise brains and fingers, and it was easy to mis-select the text you were trying to move around.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It was tedious, sure, but even worse, it was error-prone. The manual interventions were driven by our imprecise brains and fingers. It was easy to mis-select the text you were trying to move around.
```

Today, we have apps like Cursor. Instead of a human manually moving code, a tool reads code into the LLM’s context, plans interventions, and executes edits for you. It does this in a tight loop, even detecting and correcting errors as they’re written.

What used to take minutes can happen in seconds. Automation at its finest.

> So: copy-paste is the enemy of a good LLM developer experience. The job for developer tools is to make it unnecessary, and MCP exists to support this goal. Get exactly the right data in and out of an agent session, do it fast, don’t make the developer work.

Reviewer 2: Suggested change in the same vein:

> So: copy-paste is the enemy of a good LLM developer experience. The job for developer tools is to make it unnecessary, and MCP exists to support this goal. 
>
> MCP is a protocol that gives AI agents access to additional, external context – and just the right capabilities – to operate inside developer tools without forcing a human to copy-paste everything into a prompt by hand. Get exactly the right data in and out of an agent session, do it fast, don’t make the developer work.

Reviewer: Here it is in GitHub form
```suggestion
So: copy-paste is the enemy of a good LLM developer experience. The job for developer tools is to make it unnecessary, and MCP exists to support this goal.

MCP is a protocol that gives AI agents access to additional, external context – and just the right capabilities – to operate inside developer tools without forcing a human to copy-paste everything into a prompt by hand. Get exactly the right data in and out of an agent session, do it fast, don’t make the developer work.
```

> So: copy-paste is the enemy of a good LLM developer experience. The job for developer tools is to make it unnecessary, and MCP exists to support this goal. Get exactly the right data in and out of an agent session, do it fast, don’t make the developer work.

Reviewer: Alternative suggestion, maybe could combine with Edwin. I like positioning copy-paste as the enemy (because it feels tangible and true). 

```suggestion
This represents the defeat of LLM-powered experiences' great enemy: copy-paste. The job for developer tools is to make it unnecessary, and MCP exists to support this goal. Get exactly the right data in and out of an agent session, do it fast, don’t make the developer work.
```

Author: yeah, there we go

> ## Saving labor with MCP

Reviewer 2: One more high-level note. This is a good succinct explanation of the MCP server parts (i.e., resources, tools, and prompts), but it's kinda hard to mentally connect the pieces since the explanation is so minimal imo. 

The feature flag example is helpful as a use case, but it sort of glosses over where the actual data is coming from. Even a quick line like “the MCP server fetches context from a downstream API, service, or database or *your* own application” would go a long way. Or maybe we add a picture 🖼️

Author: 100%, look how fast it becomes hard to state the obvious! no wonder this discussion has suffered

> First, make it easy to install an MCP server. You can use an [automated tool](/blog/envoy-wizard-llm-agent) to inject the configuration on the developer’s behalf. Check out [this pull request](https://github.com/PostHog/wizard/pull/48) from our wizard for a look at how that works.

Reviewer: I feel like the target reader of the piece changes here. 

Before this point, it is a general intro to MCP and useful for everyone. At this point, it only becomes relevant to app/dev tool developers. I assume this is the target audience the whole time. 

We should make this a lot clearer in the intro that we are mostly focused on app/dev tool developers and how they can use MCP to be helpful to end users.

Reviewer: Also, if you don't want to use an automated tool to inject the configuration, what do you do? I'm curious about the alternative.

**How they save labor**: back to the feature flags example. If you’re in a *brand new app* and there are no feature flag names already established, a tool could save the user lots of clicking and typing. Within seconds, the new configuration can be written to a project, creating, naming and describing all the new flags.

### Prompts

**What they do**: exactly what you expect. They prompt the model. The spookiest thing for me – still! – is that instead of “programming” LLMs, you just kinda tell them what to do. Some instructions produce better results than others, and so consistently using a tested prompt can improve every developer’s session.

**How they save labor**: you can use both the agent session *and* conventional programming to decide *which* prompt to apply. Maybe Next.js 14 wants one prompt, while 15 wants another. Instead of a developer having to figure out the right phrasing, or read documentation to help structure a prompt, your MCP server can pick up the load. Prompts can also work in tandem with tools and resources, guiding the agent session in how to accomplish work.

> 

Reviewer: I feel like we are missing a tiny bit more.

- How do dev tools define resources, tools, and prompts?
   -  You make an MCP server, format everything in a specific way, and publish it for users to use
- How do end users make use of them
   - Download the MCP server and run it locally or the cloud??? Run it in your code editor??? I'm really not sure here?

## The power is yours

That’s the intro to model context prototol I wish we’d all had. It’s a straightforward contract for saving labor, eliminating tedium, and tightly integrating existing products with the emerging universe of LLM agent tools.

> We’re [working on one](https://github.com/posthog/mcp), and it runs on Cloudflare, so if you wanted to steal it to get started on your own MCP project, you could!

Reviewer: How does one get started with our MCP?

Author: heh, let's be meta and suggest a prompt for learning it!
